# DExLLM, https://advanced-recommender-systems.github.io/Data-meets-LLMs/
Data Engineering Meets Large Language Models: Challenges and Opportunities Workshop @ICDE'25


This workshop on the synergy between Data engineering (DE) and Large Language Models (LLMs) is a pioneering event in top-tier conferences. It brings together experts to share recent challenges and opportunities, aiming to inspire future research. With oral presentations and poster sessions, the workshop provides a platform for researchers from natural language processing, data engineering, and database systems to discuss ideas, review past work, and explore new directions. The focus is on the synergy between LLMs and DBMS from two aspects. The first explores how LLMs empower DBMS tasks, such as data retrieval, query optimization, and index tuning. The second examines how DE enhance the capability of LLM through data engineering, retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) systems, multi-modal data management, and more. By including participants from academia and industry, the workshop aims to connect practical applications with research, encouraging collaboration that will shape the future of intelligent databases

By inviting experts to deliver keynote speeches, the DExLLM workshop on ICDE'25 aims to share the latest innovations and breakthroughs on the target topic, serving as a beacon for current and future research. The oral and poster sessions provide a communication platform for researchers in the areas of either DE or natural language processing to exchange their ideas, summarize existing works, and discuss prospective aspects. It will focus on the under-explored ability for both DE and LLMs including enhancing LLMs with powerful DBMS and empowering data engineering with the advantages of LLMs. By including participants from both academia and industry, this workshop tries to narrow the gaps between the application attempts and methodology studies and, more importantly, to push the boundaries of data engineering in the era of LLMs.
